README.rst, before:

Django Neomodel (beta!)
=======================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robinedwards/neomodel/master/doc/source/_static/neomodel-300.png
   :alt: neomodel

This module allows you to use the neo4j_ graph database with Django using neomodel_

.. _neo4j: https://www.neo4j.org
.. _neomodel: http://neomodel.readthedocs.org

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/robinedwards/django-neomodel.png
    :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/robinedwards/django-neomodel/

Getting started
===============

Install the module::

    $ pip install django_neomodel

Add the following settings to your `settings.py`::

    NEOMODEL_NEO4J_BOLT_URL = os.environ.get('NEO4J_BOLT_URL', 'bolt://neo4j:test@localhost:7687')

    # Make sure django_neomodel comes before your own apps
    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        # django.contrib.auth etc
        'django_neomodel',
        'yourapp'
    )

Write your first node definition in `yourapp/models.py`::

    from neomodel import StructuredNode, StringProperty, DateProperty

    class Book(StructuredNode):
        title = StringProperty(unique_index=True)
        published = DateProperty()

Create any constraints or indexes for your labels. This needs to be done after you change your node definitions
much like `manage.py migrate`::

    $ python manage.py install_labels

Now in a view `yourapp/views.py`::

    from .models import Book

    def get_books(request):
        return render('yourapp/books.html', request, {'books': Book.nodes.all()})

And you're ready to go. Don't forget to check the neomodel_ documentation.

Model forms
===========

Switch the base class from `StructuredNode` to `DjangoNode` and add a 'Meta' class::

    from datetime import datetime
    from django_neomodel import DjangoNode
    from neomodel import StructuredNode, StringProperty, DateTimeProperty, UniqueIdProperty

    class Book(DjangoNode):
        uid = UniqueIdProperty()
        title = StringProperty(unique_index=True)
        status = StringProperty(choices=(
                ('Available', 'A'),
                ('On loan', 'L'),
                ('Damaged', 'D'),
            ), default='Available')
        created = DateTimeProperty(default=datetime.utcnow)

        class Meta:
            app_label = 'library'

Create a model form class for your `DjangoNode`::

    class BookForm(ModelForm):
        class Meta:
            model = Book
            fields = ['title', 'status']

This class may now be used just like any other Django form.

Settings
========
The following settings are available with default value shown::

   NEOMODEL_NEO4J_BOLT_URL = 'bolt://neo4j:neo4j@localhost:7687'
   NEOMODEL_SIGNALS = True
   NEOMODEL_FORCE_TIMEZONE = False

Signals
=======
Signals work as expected with `StructuredNode` sub-classes::

    from django.db.models import signals
    from neomodel import StructuredNode, StringProperty

    class Book(StructuredNode):
      title = StringProperty(unique_index=True)

    signals.post_save.connect(your_func, sender=Library)

Testing
=======

You can create a setup method which clears the database before executing each test::

    from neomodel import db, clear_neo4j_database

    class YourTestClass(DjangoTestCase):
        def setUp(self):
            clear_neo4j_database(db)

        def test_something(self):
            pass

Management Commands
===================

The following django management commands have been included.

install_labels
--------------
Setup constraints and indexes on labels for your node definitions. This should be executed after any schema changes::

   $ python manage.py install_labels
   Setting up labels and constraints...

   Found tests.someapp.models.Book
   + Creating unique constraint for title on label Book for class tests.someapp.models.Book

   Finished 1 class(es).

clear_neo4j
-----------
Delete all nodes in your database, warning there is no confirmation!

Requirements
============

- Python 2.7, 3.4+
- neo4j 3.0+

.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
   :alt: Join the chat at https://gitter.im/robinedwards/neomodel
   :target: https://gitter.im/robinedwards/neomodel?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge

Commit message:

Add notes about new config options

README.rst, after:

Django Neomodel (beta!)
=======================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robinedwards/neomodel/master/doc/source/_static/neomodel-300.png
   :alt: neomodel

This module allows you to use the neo4j_ graph database with Django using neomodel_

.. _neo4j: https://www.neo4j.org
.. _neomodel: http://neomodel.readthedocs.org

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/robinedwards/django-neomodel.png
    :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/robinedwards/django-neomodel/

Getting started
===============

Install the module::

    $ pip install django_neomodel

Add the following settings to your `settings.py`::

    NEOMODEL_NEO4J_BOLT_URL = os.environ.get('NEO4J_BOLT_URL', 'bolt://neo4j:test@localhost:7687')

    # Make sure django_neomodel comes before your own apps
    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        # django.contrib.auth etc
        'django_neomodel',
        'yourapp'
    )

Write your first node definition in `yourapp/models.py`::

    from neomodel import StructuredNode, StringProperty, DateProperty

    class Book(StructuredNode):
        title = StringProperty(unique_index=True)
        published = DateProperty()

Create any constraints or indexes for your labels. This needs to be done after you change your node definitions
much like `manage.py migrate`::

    $ python manage.py install_labels

Now in a view `yourapp/views.py`::

    from .models import Book

    def get_books(request):
        return render('yourapp/books.html', request, {'books': Book.nodes.all()})

And you're ready to go. Don't forget to check the neomodel_ documentation.

Model forms
===========

Switch the base class from `StructuredNode` to `DjangoNode` and add a 'Meta' class::

    from datetime import datetime
    from django_neomodel import DjangoNode
    from neomodel import StructuredNode, StringProperty, DateTimeProperty, UniqueIdProperty

    class Book(DjangoNode):
        uid = UniqueIdProperty()
        title = StringProperty(unique_index=True)
        status = StringProperty(choices=(
                ('Available', 'A'),
                ('On loan', 'L'),
                ('Damaged', 'D'),
            ), default='Available')
        created = DateTimeProperty(default=datetime.utcnow)

        class Meta:
            app_label = 'library'

Create a model form class for your `DjangoNode`::

    class BookForm(ModelForm):
        class Meta:
            model = Book
            fields = ['title', 'status']

This class may now be used just like any other Django form.

Settings
========
The following config options are available in django settings (default values shown).
These are mapped to neomodel.config as django is started.

   NEOMODEL_NEO4J_BOLT_URL = 'bolt://neo4j:neo4j@localhost:7687'
   NEOMODEL_SIGNALS = True
   NEOMODEL_FORCE_TIMEZONE = False
   NEOMODEL_ENCRYPTED_CONNECTION = True
   NEOMODEL_MAX_POOL_SIZE = 50

Signals
=======
Signals work as expected with `StructuredNode` sub-classes::

    from django.db.models import signals
    from neomodel import StructuredNode, StringProperty

    class Book(StructuredNode):
      title = StringProperty(unique_index=True)

    signals.post_save.connect(your_func, sender=Library)

Testing
=======

You can create a setup method which clears the database before executing each test::

    from neomodel import db, clear_neo4j_database

    class YourTestClass(DjangoTestCase):
        def setUp(self):
            clear_neo4j_database(db)

        def test_something(self):
            pass

Management Commands
===================

The following django management commands have been included.

install_labels
--------------
Setup constraints and indexes on labels for your node definitions. This should be executed after any schema changes::

   $ python manage.py install_labels
   Setting up labels and constraints...

   Found tests.someapp.models.Book
   + Creating unique constraint for title on label Book for class tests.someapp.models.Book

   Finished 1 class(es).

clear_neo4j
-----------
Delete all nodes in your database, warning there is no confirmation!

Requirements
============

- Python 2.7, 3.4+
- neo4j 3.0+

.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
   :alt: Join the chat at https://gitter.im/robinedwards/neomodel
   :target: https://gitter.im/robinedwards/neomodel?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge
